Palette File Format
===================

Author would like to thank authors of the following tools (in no particular order) for providing the information about the palette file format (which is the same in The Tone Rebellion and an older game from The Logic Factory, Ascendancy):

- [Ascendancy Converter v1.0][ascendancy-converter] by [Михаил Бесчетнов aka Terminus][extractor.ru]
- [Tone Extractor Tools][fadoli.tone-rebellion-extractor] by Franck M. ([@Fadoli][fadoli])
- [ascendancy][daumiller.ascendancy] utilities by Darcy ([@daumiller][daumiller])

The Tone Rebellion uses 64-color (6-bit) palette, and the palette data is stored in `.pal` files.

The file format is simple: every palette is exactly 768 bytes long, and stores 256 colors. Every color is stored in 3 bytes: `RGB`, where each byte holds a 6-bit value. To convert from these palette values to a modern 32-bit ARGB color, each value should be multiplied by 4.

Every palette file is associated with one or more `.shp` files. Full association list:

```
acast.shp: game.pal
acticon.shp: game.pal
alegs.shp: game.pal
alltrigs.shp: game.pal
bigfloat.shp: newgame.pal
bildicon.shp: game.pal
bildtone.shp: game.pal
bldgage.shp: game.pal
br-trg01.shp: game.pal
bul.shp: game.pal
clip0.shp: game.pal
clip1.shp: game.pal
clip2.shp: game.pal
clip3.shp: game.pal
crumble.shp: game.pal
die.shp: game.pal
diploma.shp: game.pal
editor00.shp: game.pal
editor01.shp: game.pal
end.shp: mainmap.pal
endgame.shp: endgame.pal
endglw.shp: mainmap.pal
endtem0.shp: endgam0.pal
endtem1.shp: endgam1.pal
endtem2.shp: endgam2.pal
endtem3.shp: endgam3.pal
endtemp.shp: endgame.pal
erealm.shp: game.pal
fltinfo.shp: game.pal
gaugesjd.shp: game.pal
glinv.shp: game.pal
glinv0.shp: game.pal
glinv1.shp: game.pal
glinv2.shp: game.pal
glinv3.shp: game.pal
glyphs.shp: newgame.pal
halllife.shp: game.pal
hallmyst.shp: game.pal
hallprot.shp: game.pal
hallseek.shp: game.pal
hallwand.shp: game.pal
hit.shp: game.pal
i00-feat.shp: island00.pal
i01-feat.shp: island01.pal
i02-feat.shp: island02.pal
i03-feat.shp: island03.pal
i04-feat.shp: island04.pal
i05-feat.shp: island05.pal
i06-feat.shp: island06.pal
i07-feat.shp: island07.pal
i08-feat.shp: island08.pal
i09-feat.shp: island09.pal
i10-feat.shp: island10.pal
i11-feat.shp: island11.pal
i12-feat.shp: island12.pal
i13-feat.shp: island13.pal
i13-trig.shp: island13.pal
i14-feat.shp: island14.pal
inci1.shp: game.pal
inci2.shp: game.pal
island00.shp: island00.pal
island01.shp: island01.pal
island02.shp: island02.pal
island03.shp: island03.pal
island04.shp: island04.pal
island05.shp: island05.pal
island06.shp: island06.pal
island07.shp: island07.pal
island08.shp: island08.pal
island09.shp: island09.pal
island10.shp: island10.pal
island11.shp: island11.pal
island12.shp: island12.pal
island13.shp: island13.pal
island14.shp: island14.pal
islandxx.shp: game.pal
isletmp0.shp: game.pal
isletmp1.shp: game.pal
isletmp2.shp: game.pal
isletmp3.shp: game.pal
isrealm.shp: game.pal
join1.shp: game.pal
join2.shp: game.pal
join3.shp: game.pal
join4.shp: game.pal
join5.shp: game.pal
join6.shp: game.pal
key.shp: game.pal
l-bldton.shp: game.pal
l-cryton.shp: newgame.pal
l-enrich.shp: newgame.pal
l-extend.shp: newgame.pal
l-fxtr1.shp: game.pal
l-fxtr3.shp: game.pal
l-hall.shp: game.pal
l-magton.shp: game.pal
l-spec1.shp: game.pal
l-spell1.shp: game.pal
l-train1.shp: game.pal
l-train2.shp: game.pal
l-train3.shp: game.pal
lbod.shp: game.pal
lcast.shp: game.pal
levidif.shp: newgame.pal
life.shp: endgame.pal
lilmap.shp: game.pal
llegs.shp: game.pal
loadsav0.shp: game.pal
loadsav1.shp: game.pal
loadsav2.shp: game.pal
loadsav3.shp: game.pal
loadsave.shp: game.pal
lstitle.shp: game.pal
m-bldton.shp: game.pal
m-cryton.shp: game.pal
m-enrich.shp: game.pal
m-extend.shp: game.pal
m-fxtr1.shp: game.pal
m-fxtr2.shp: game.pal
m-fxtr2c.shp: game.pal
m-fxtr3.shp: game.pal
m-hall.shp: game.pal
m-hatch.shp: game.pal
m-magton.shp: game.pal
m-spec1.shp: game.pal
m-spec2.shp: game.pal
m-spec3.shp: game.pal
m-spell1.shp: game.pal
m-spell2.shp: game.pal
m-train1.shp: game.pal
m-train2.shp: game.pal
m-train3.shp: game.pal
magctone.shp: game.pal
mainbut0.shp: game.pal
mainbut1.shp: game.pal
mainbut2.shp: game.pal
mainbut3.shp: game.pal
mapback.shp: mainmap.pal
mbod.shp: game.pal
mcast.shp: game.pal
mlegs.shp: game.pal
newback.shp: newgame.pal
ngbutton.shp: game.pal
ngmeintr.shp: game.pal
ngrealms.shp: game.pal
nrealm.shp: game.pal
p-bldton.shp: game.pal
p-cryton.shp: game.pal
p-enrich.shp: game.pal
p-extend.shp: game.pal
p-hall.shp: game.pal
p-hatch.shp: game.pal
p-magton.shp: game.pal
p-medic.shp: game.pal
p-pctrn.shp: game.pal
p-prtrn.shp: game.pal
p-ronin.shp: game.pal
p-spec1.shp: game.pal
p-spec2.shp: game.pal
p-spec3.shp: game.pal
p-spec4.shp: game.pal
p-spell1.shp: game.pal
p-speltw.shp: game.pal
p-splton.shp: game.pal
p-srtrn.shp: game.pal
p-tcrys.shp: game.pal
p-train1.shp: game.pal
p-train2.shp: game.pal
p-train3.shp: game.pal
pad.shp: game.pal
padmap.shp: game.pal
pause.shp: game.pal
pbod.shp: game.pal
pcast.shp: game.pal
phy.shp: game.pal
plegs.shp: game.pal
prior.shp: game.pal
pspl13.shp: game.pal
pt1b.shp: game.pal
pt2b.shp: game.pal
pt2ball.shp: game.pal
pt2cast.shp: game.pal
pt3b.shp: game.pal
repair.shp: game.pal
s-hall.shp: game.pal
s-spell1.shp: game.pal
s-spell2.shp: game.pal
s-train1.shp: game.pal
s-train2.shp: game.pal
s-train3.shp: game.pal
s3c.shp: game.pal
sbod.shp: game.pal
scarrow0.shp: game.pal
scarrow1.shp: game.pal
scarrow2.shp: game.pal
scarrow3.shp: game.pal
scast.shp: game.pal
scroll.shp: game.pal
seek.shp: endgame.pal
slegs.shp: game.pal
slidwin0.shp: game.pal
slidwin1.shp: game.pal
slidwin2.shp: game.pal
slidwin3.shp: game.pal
smilse.shp: game.pal
smisle.shp: mainmap.pal
smrealms.shp: endgame.pal
solidpad.shp: game.pal
spears.shp: game.pal
spellbut.shp: game.pal
spiral.shp: game.pal
spiral2.shp: game.pal
spl03.shp: game.pal
spl04.shp: game.pal
spl10.shp: game.pal
spl11.shp: game.pal
spl12b.shp: game.pal
spl13.shp: game.pal
spl14.shp: game.pal
spl15.shp: game.pal
spl16.shp: game.pal
spl17c.shp: game.pal
spl18c.shp: game.pal
spl19e.shp: game.pal
spl20.shp: game.pal
spl21.shp: game.pal
spl22.shp: game.pal
spl2b.shp: game.pal
spl5.shp: game.pal
spl6e.shp: game.pal
spl7.shp: game.pal
spl8b.shp: game.pal
spl8e.shp: game.pal
spl9b.shp: game.pal
st1b.shp: game.pal
st1c.shp: game.pal
st2c.shp: game.pal
st2e.shp: game.pal
sup.shp: game.pal
taskicon.shp: game.pal
temphol0.shp: game.pal
temphol1.shp: game.pal
temphol2.shp: game.pal
temphol3.shp: game.pal
thall.shp: game.pal
thall0.shp: game.pal
thall1.shp: game.pal
thall2.shp: game.pal
thall3.shp: game.pal
thbutt.shp: game.pal
titscrn.shp: titscrn.pal
tone.shp: game.pal
toneanim.shp: game.pal
tonecrys.shp: game.pal
trade.shp: game.pal
trainb.shp: game.pal
trainbut.shp: game.pal
upgrade.shp: game.pal
v-at2fx.shp: game.pal
v-at5fx.shp: game.pal
v-at6fx.shp: game.pal
v-attck1.shp: game.pal
v-attck2.shp: game.pal
v-attck3.shp: game.pal
v-attck4.shp: game.pal
v-attck5.shp: game.pal
v-attck6.shp: game.pal
v-ench1.shp: game.pal
v-ench2.shp: game.pal
v-ench3.shp: game.pal
v-ench4.shp: game.pal
v-ench5.shp: game.pal
v-ench6.shp: game.pal
v-esupp.shp: game.pal
v-infect.shp: game.pal
v-mecc.shp: game.pal
v-merb.shp: game.pal
v-merc.shp: game.pal
v-mnrb.shp: game.pal
v-msrc.shp: game.pal
v-nsupfx.shp: game.pal
v-nsupp.shp: game.pal
v-power1.shp: game.pal
v-power2.shp: game.pal
v-power3.shp: game.pal
v-prfx.shp: game.pal
v-psupp.shp: game.pal
v-rod1.shp: game.pal
v-rod2.shp: game.pal
v-rod3.shp: game.pal
v-shot1.shp: game.pal
v-shot1b.shp: game.pal
v-shot2.shp: game.pal
v-shot3.shp: game.pal
v-sht2fx.shp: game.pal
v-spore.shp: game.pal
v-ssupp.shp: game.pal
v-supfx.shp: game.pal
vblegs.shp: game.pal
vbod.shp: game.pal
veclegs.shp: game.pal
verlegs.shp: game.pal
vlegs.shp: game.pal
vmbods.shp: game.pal
vmsrlegs.shp: game.pal
vnclegs.shp: game.pal
vnrlegs.shp: game.pal
vpclegs.shp: game.pal
vprlegs.shp: game.pal
vsclegs.shp: game.pal
vsrlegs.shp: game.pal
```

[ascendancy-converter]: https://www.extractor.ru/files/051b8c7c6155fef1460fab189f7edb68/
[daumiller.ascendancy]: https://github.com/daumiller/ascendancy
[daumiller]: https://github.com/daumiller
[extractor.ru]: http://www.extractor.ru/
[fadoli.tone-rebellion-extractor]: https://github.com/Fadoli/Tone-rebellion-extractor
[fadoli]: https://github.com/Fadoli
